Genericize frontend tutorial and make it clear other tech are usable and track it (#16195)
docker/docs: desktop/extensions-sdk/build/set-up/frontend-extension-tutorial.md

---
title: Set up an advanced frontend extension
description: Advanced frontend extension tutorial
keywords: Docker, extensions, sdk, build
redirect_from:
  - /desktop/extensions-sdk/tutorials/react-extension/
  - /desktop/extensions-sdk/build/set-up/react-extension/
  - /desktop/extensions-sdk/build/set-up/minimal-frontend-using-docker-cli/
---

To start creating your extension, you first need a directory with files which range from the extension’s source code to the required extension-specific files. This page provides information on how to set up a simple Docker extension that contains only a UI part.

> Note
>

> > Before you start, make sure you have installed the latest version of [Docker Desktop](../../../release-notes.md).

Reviewer: If you want users to get the latest version of Desktop, use the following link: https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/

Author: I'll change other pages as well, it makes more sense indeed

## Extension folder structure

> The easiest way to create a new extension is to run `docker extension init <my-extension>` as in the [Quickstart](../../quickstart.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quickest way to create a new extension is to run `docker extension init <my-extension>` as in the [Quickstart](../../quickstart.md).
```

Although you can start from an empty directory of from the `react-extension` [sample folder](https://github.com/docker/extensions-sdk/tree/main/samples){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"},
it's highly recommended that you start from the `docker extension init` command and change it so to suit your needs.

```bash
.
├── Dockerfile # (1)
├── ui # (2)
│   ├── public # (3)
│   │   └── index.html
│   ├── src # (4)
│   │   ├── App.tsx
│   │   ├── index.tsx
│   ├── package.json
│   └── package-lock.lock
│   ├── tsconfig.json
├── docker.svg # (5)
└── metadata.json # (6)
```

1. Contains everything required to build the extension and run it in Docker Desktop.
2. High-level folder containing your front-end app source code.
3. Assets that aren’t compiled or dynamically generated are stored here. These can be static assets like logos or the robots.txt file.
4. The src, or source folder contains all the React components, external CSS files, and dynamic assets that are brought into the component files.
5. The icon that is displayed in the left-menu of the Docker Desktop Dashboard.
6. A file that provides information about the extension such as the name, description, and version.

> ## Create a Dockerfile

Reviewer: If users have run `docker extension init`, then this title is misleading (the Dockerfile has already been created for them).

```suggestion
## Adapting the Dockerfile (optional)
```

> Use the Dockerfile below as a template and change it accordingly to suit your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Dockerfile below as a template and change it accordingly to your needs.
```

> and let us know you'd like a Dockerfile for Vue.
{: .important }

  </div>
  <div id="angular-dockerfile" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

<br/>

> **Important**
>
> We don't have a working Dockerfile for Angular yet. [Fill out the form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdxJDGFJl5oJ06rG7uqtw1rsSBZpUhv_s9HHtw80cytkh2X-Q/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.1333218187=Angular)
> and let us know you'd like a Dockerfile for Angular.
{: .important }

  </div>
  <div id="svelte-dockerfile" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

<br/>

> **Important**
>
> We don't have a working Dockerfile for Svelte yet. [Fill out the form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdxJDGFJl5oJ06rG7uqtw1rsSBZpUhv_s9HHtw80cytkh2X-Q/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.1333218187=Svelte)
> and let us know you'd like a Dockerfile for Svelte.
{: .important }

  </div>
</div>

## Configure the metadata file

A `metadata.json` file is required at the root of your extension directory.

```json
{
  "icon": "docker.svg",
  "ui": {
    "dashboard-tab": {
      "title": "UI Extension",
      "root": "/ui",

>       "src": "index.html"

Reviewer: Could you mention what these 2 props are for? We need to emphasize that they point to the extension's image filesystem (not the host filesystem).

    }
  }
}
```

> ## Use extension APIs in the application code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use the Extension API Client
```

> To use the extension APIs and perform actions with Docker Desktop, the application must first import the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the extension APIs and perform actions with Docker Desktop, the extension must first import the 
```

`@docker/extension-api-client` library. To install it, run the command below:

```bash
npm install @docker/extension-api-client
```

Then call the `createDockerDesktopClient` function to create a client object to call the extension APIs.

```js
import { createDockerDesktopClient } from '@docker/extension-api-client';

const ddClient = createDockerDesktopClient();
```

> When using Typescript, you can also install `@docker/extension-api-client-types` as a dev dependency. This will 

Reviewer: Could you add the command to add this pkg as a dev dependency?

provide you with type definitions for the extension APIs and auto-completion in your IDE.

![types auto complete](images/types-autocomplete.png)

> For example, you can use the `docker.cli.exec` function to get the list of all the containers via the `docker ps` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can use the `docker.cli.exec` function to get the list of all the running containers via the `docker ps` 
```

Author: I updated the command instead as the code uses `--all` to list all the containers and not only the running ones.

command and display the result in a table.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs">

>   <li class="active"><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#react-app" data-group="react">For React</a></li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li class="active"><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#react-app" data-group="react">React</a></li>
```

>   <li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#vue-app" data-group="vue">For Vue</a></li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#vue-app" data-group="vue">Vue</a></li>
```

>   <li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#angular-app" data-group="angular">For Angular</a></li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#angular-app" data-group="angular">Angular</a></li>
```

>   <li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#svelte-app" data-group="svelte">For Svelte</a></li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#svelte-app" data-group="svelte">Svelte</a></li>
```

</ul>

<div class="tab-content">
  <div id="react-app" class="tab-pane fade in active" markdown="1">

> Edit the `ui/src/App.tsx` file to add the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the existing `ui/src/App.tsx` file with the following code:
```

> ```tsx

Reviewer: This is a very nice example, thanks for taking the time!
